Blog: Avoiding Kubernetes Anti-Patterns (#4314)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/kubernetes-anti-patterns/index.md

In software development, an anti-pattern is defined as an apparent solution that has unintended or negative consequences. The other side of anti-patterns is that they also offer solutions. Let's look at [container](https://codefresh.io/containers/docker-anti-patterns/) and [Kubernetes](https://medium.com/better-programming/10-antipatterns-for-kubernetes-deployments-e97ce1199f2d) anti-patterns and how to avoid them with infrastructure as code.

<!--more-->

## Hardcoding configuration in containers

Containers are immutable, and a single image can be used throughout the software lifecycle, i.e., from dev, to test, and to production. However, developers frequently use an image built using artifacts and configurations unique to a stage in the software lifecycle. The result is that the image in dev or test is not the same as the image deployed in production.

Best practice uses ConfigMaps, a Kubernetes native resource that doesn't require integration.   Because configuration is decoupled from the application, building the image at each stage is not necessary. Furthermore, ConfigMaps let you update when the application is running because the configuration is available during runtime.

> Let's look at an example where NginX is configured as a reverse-proxy that sends traffic to pulumi.github.io. The configuration is contained in a file, default.conf. Changing the file registers as a change in the ConfigMap's data triggering a rollout of the NginX Deployment. If we change .node.server and .serve.location.proxy_set_header to `google.com`, NginX will redirect requests to google.com. When we run `pulumi up`m the preview shows it will explicitly trigger a rollout in the Deployment by replacing the ConfigMap. In contrast, kubectl will silently sync the new version of the file to the containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's look at an example where NginX is configured as a reverse-proxy that sends traffic to `pulumi.github.io`. The configuration is contained in a file, `default.conf`. Changing the file registers as a change in the ConfigMap's data triggering a rollout of the NginX Deployment. If we change `.node.server` and `.serve.location.proxy_set_header` to `google.com`, NginX will redirect requests to google.com. When we run `pulumi up`, the preview shows it will explicitly trigger a rollout in the Deployment by replacing the ConfigMap. In contrast, kubectl will update the ConfigMap, but changes are not automatically applied to running containers.
```

![Preview](preview.png)

ConfigMap

> ```json

Reviewer: This isn't valid json, so should probably just use an untagged block comment

upstream node {
  server pulumi.github.io;
}
server {
  listen                  80;
  server_name             _;
  root                    /usr/share/nginx/html;
  location / {
    proxy_set_header X-Real-IP \$remote_addr;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For \$proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
    proxy_set_header Host pulumi.github.io;
    proxy_pass http://node;
    proxy_redirect off;
    port_in_redirect off;
  }
}
```

Deployment

```typescript
import * as k8s from "@pulumi/kubernetes";
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";
import * as fs from "fs";

const config = new pulumi.Config();

const appName = "nginx";
const appLabels = { app: appName };

// nginx Configuration data to proxy traffic to `pulumi.github.io`. Read from
// `default.conf` file.
const nginxConfig = new k8s.core.v1.ConfigMap(appName, {
    metadata: { labels: appLabels },
    data: { "default.conf": fs.readFileSync("default.conf").toString() },
});

> const nginxConfigName = nginxConfig.metadata.apply(m => m.name);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const nginxConfigName = nginxConfig.metadata.name;
```

Outputs behave like promises because outputs are not fully known until the infrastructure resource has completed provisioning, which happens asynchronously. Outputs are also how Pulumi tracks dependencies between resources. Outputs, therefore, represent two things:

- The eventual raw value of the output
- The dependency on the source(s) of the output value

Pulumi automatically captures dependencies when you pass an output from one resource as input to another, ensuring that physical infrastructure resources are not created or updated until all their dependencies are available and up-to-date. Pulumi understands the dependencies between resources, which maximizes parallelism and ensures correct ordering. When you run the pulumi up command, Pulumi computes the desired state, compares it to the current infrastructure (if any), displays the delta, and lets you confirm and carry out the changes.

By default, if a resource must be replaced, Pulumi will attempt to create a new copy of the resource before destroying the old one. This is helpful because it allows updates to infrastructure to happen without downtime.

## Naked Pods are prohibited

> Pods not bound to a ReplicaSet or Deployment will not be rescheduled in the event of a node failure. A Deployment with a ReplicaSet ensures that the specified number of Pods is always available and a strategy to replace Pods (such as RollingUpdate) better than creating Pods directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pods not bound to a ReplicaSet or Deployment will not be rescheduled in the event of a node failure. A Deployment with a ReplicaSet ensures that the specified number of Pods is always available and a strategy to replace Pods (such as RollingUpdate) is preferable to creating Pods directly.
```

                    if (it?.image?.endsWith(":latest")) {
                        reportViolation("Image version should not be 'latest'.");
                    }
                });
            }),
        },
    ],
});

```

## Mixing both production and non-production workloads in the same cluster

Namespaces in Kubernetes support multiple environments on the same cluster. Each namespace is, in effect, a virtual cluster within the physical cluster. While there are operational gains and cost advantages by mixing multiple environments in the same cluster, mixing other environments with production can impact application performance and security by either competition for resources or by increasing the production attack surface because it's not isolated from other environments.

Your production environment should be rock solid and separate from other environments. One way to separate environments is to tag resources such as clusters and use policy to enforce that the cluster is only used for production.

The example script below shows how to tag a resource when it's created.

```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";

> const foo = new aws.ecs.<resource>("foo", {

Reviewer: Is `<resource>` correct here?
